# DSCI 522 Project: Wine Quality Predictors

### Team Members
- Reza Bagheri (github ID: reza-bagheri)
- Luo Yang (github ID: lyiris22)

### Summary

In this project, we used the [Wine Quality Data Set](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Wine+Quality) to explore the effect of different parameters on wine quality. We used the method of decision tree from [scikit-learn](https://scikit-learn.org/stable/modules/generated/sklearn.tree.DecisionTreeClassifier.html) to rank the importance of parameters for both red wine and white wine. We wrote R scripts to clean the data and make visualizations, and a Python script to generate decision tree. The final report is written in Rmd file.

### Data Analysis

The scripts we use are in the `src` folder.

(Note that we use command line in the root folder to run these files, so the relative paths are corresponding to the root folder in the examples below. For example, we use `src/scriptname.R` to get the script and save the file to `results/outputfile.csv`.)

First, we used [load_write_raw_data.R](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/load_write_raw_data.R) to load the [Wine Quality Data Set](https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Wine+Quality) from URL, and save the raw data to csv files in `results` folder. The inputs and outputs are shown in the example below:

```
Rscript src/load_write_raw_data.R 'https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/wine-quality/winequality-red.csv' data/raw_red.csv
Rscript src/load_write_raw_data.R 'https://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/machine-learning-databases/wine-quality/winequality-white.csv' data/raw_white.csv

```

Second, we used [load_clean_3_targets.R](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/load_clean_3_targets.R) and [load_clean_4_targets.R](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/load_clean_4_targets.R) to re-organize the quality labels. The `load_clean_4_targets.R` combined the quality into "low", "med_low", "med_high" and "high", while the `load_clean_3_targets.R` combined into "low", "med", and "high". We have these two scripts because we need to check which method is a better way to balance the data and fit a decision tree.

Both scripts takes the clean data generated by `load_write_raw_data.R` as input, and produce a csv file of clean data. Example for running `load_clean_4_targets.R` is below:

```
Rscript src/load_clean_4_targets.R data/raw_red.csv data/clean_red_4_targets.csv
Rscript src/load_clean_4_targets.R data/raw_white.csv data/clean_white_4_targets.csv
```

Example for running `load_clean_3_targets.R`:

```
Rscript src/load_clean_3_targets.R data/raw_red.csv data/clean_red_3_targets.csv
Rscript src/load_clean_3_targets.R data/raw_white.csv data/clean_white_3_targets.csv
```

Then, we used [plot_violin.R](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/plot_violin.R) and [plot_hist.R](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/plot_hist.R) to create visulizations for the clean data. `plot_violin.R` takes the cleaned data created by the scripts above as file input. It also takes the name of output file. It produces a png file of violin plots as output. Examples for generating violin plots with error bars are below:

```
Rscript src/plot_violin.R data/clean_red_3_targets.csv results/violin_red.png
Rscript src/plot_violin.R data/clean_white_3_targets.csv results/violin_white.png
```

`plot_hist.R` takes four data sets, which are the raw and clean data for both red and white wine, as input. It also takes the name of output file. It produces four histograms, one for each data set, as the output. Example for generating histograms is below:

```
Rscript src/plot_hist.R data/raw_red.csv data/raw_white.csv data/clean_red_3_targets.csv data/clean_white_3_targets.csv results/hist_raw_red.png results/hist_raw_white.png results/hist_clean_red.png results/hist_clean_white.png
```

After that, we used [draw_tree.py](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/src/draw_tree.py) to generate decision trees for the data sets. It takes the clean data as file input, the name of output file, and variables to specify whether the data contains 3 or 4 targets, as well as if we want the data to be balanced or not. It produces an decision tree graph, a csv file to show the importances for each feature, and add the cross validation score for the set to a csv file that records all the scores for each data set. An example to run the script is shown below:

```
Python src/draw_tree.py data/clean_red_4_targets.csv results/tree_red_4 results/tree_scores.csv results/red_4_imp.csv 4 false
```

Finally, we summarized our results and made a report `Report.md` in `doc` folder.

We also have an pseudo shell script [run_all.sh](https://github.com/UBC-MDS/DSCI_522_wine-quality-predictors/blob/master/run_all.sh) in the root folder, for an reference of our main idea of the analysis.
